add C switch-case draft for Codecademy Docs (#1910)
Codecademy/docs: content/c/concepts/switch/switch.md

---
Title: 'Switch' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Evaluates an expression or variable to execute a code of block if the expression's result matches a case value.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Control Flow'
  - 'If'
  - 'Else'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> In C, the **`switch case`** statement is one that allows us to execute a block of code, like you would if were to use the `if..else-if..else` statement.  A main difference here, though, is that this statement is much easier to read and write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In C, the **`switch case`** statement is one that allows us to execute a block of code, similar to the `if..else-if..else` statement.  A main difference here, though, is that this statement is much easier to read and write.
```

Author: Done!  Thank you for that extra revision.

---

> Title: 'switch-case' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

Author: Done

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Control Flow'
  - 'If'
  - 'Else'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

In C, the **`switch case`** statement is one that allows us to execute a block of code, similar to the `if..else-if..else` statement.  A main difference here, though, is that this statement is much easier to read and write.

However, it can only evaluate one expression or variable at a time.

## Syntax

```

> switch(expression) {
>     case value1:
> 	//enter code here
> 	break;
>     case value2:
> 	//enter code here
> 	break;
>     case value_n:
> 	//enter code here
> 	break;
>     default:
> 	//enter code here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
switch(expression) {
    case value1:
	// Enter code here
	break;
    case value2:
	// Enter code here
	break;
    case value_n:
	// Enter code here
	break;
    default:
	// Enter code here
```

}
```

> Here's how the switch-case statement works:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's how the switch (aka switch-case) statement works:
```

1. The switch `expression` is evaluated only once.

> 2. The value of the expression will be compared with the values of each `case`, and if there is a match with a provided `case`, its corresponding block of code is executed.  If there is no code block provided in the case, it moves on right to the next case until it finds a case where there is a code block, and executes the code block there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The value of the expression will be compared with the values of each `case`, and if there is a match the corresponding block of code is executed.  If there is no code block provided in the `case`, the flow moves on to the next `case` until it finds one with a code block, and executes the code there.
```

> 3. The `break` keyword breaks out of the switch block, and stops any further executions of statements in the switch.  (Without the `break`, execution would continue with the next `case` statement.) The program now exits the switch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The `break` keyword breaks out of the switch block, and does not evaluate any additional statements in the switch.  (Without the `break`, execution would continue with the next `case` statement.) The program now exits the switch.
```

> 4. The code inside the `default` case is executed if none of the above cases are matched with the resulting value of the expression.  This case is optional, and acts just like the `else` in an `if..else-if..else` statement.  It acts as a "catch-all" case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The code inside the `default` case is executed if none of the above cases are matched. This case is optional, and acts just like the `else` in an `if..else-if..else` statement. It serves as a "catch-all" case.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The expression or variable's resulting value must be of a type in which it can be considered an integral or enumerated type.  Examples of valid result types for switch-case expressions are `int`, `double`, `float`, and `char`.  (Remember that characters, which have type `char`, are integral, because they have integer ASCII codes.)  This statement will not be valid for expressions or variables that, for example, result in a string value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The expression or variable's resulting value must be an integral or enumerated type.  Examples of valid result types for switch-case expressions are `int`, `double`, `float`, and `char`.  (Remember that characters, which have type `char`, are integral, because they have integer ASCII codes.)  This statement will not be valid for expressions or variables that, for example, result in a string value.
```

## Example 1: Evaluating a variable

Let's say we want to print out some statements to a student based on a grade they got on a test or quiz.

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(){
    char grade = 'B';
    switch(grade){
	case 'A':
	    printf("Excellent!\n");
	    break;
	case 'B':
	case 'C':
	    printf("Good job!\n");
	    break;
	case 'D':
	    printf("Okay, you passed.\n");
	    break;
	case 'F':
	    printf("Better try again...\n");
	    break;
	default:
	    printf("Invalid grade!!!\n");
    }
  
    printf("Your grade is %c\n", grade);

    return 0;

>     /**************************************

Reviewer: Instead of a comment, put the output in a separate ` ```shell ` block like this:

This example will output:

```shell
Good job!
Your grade is B
```

```

This example will output:

```shell
Good job!
Your grade is B
```

## Example 2: Evaluating an expression

> The following determines if the addition of 2 numbers results in either a total of 5 or 4.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following determines if the addition of two numbers results in either a total of 5 or 4.
```

> Notice that the case for the grade `B` did not have a code block on its own -- not even a `break` keyword, so the switch statement went to the next case of `C` and executed the block of code there.

Reviewer: This detail should be mentioned in the Syntax section above.

Author: Okay, I already mentioned that as you suggested in one of the suggestions above.  So, I will just delete this sentence entirely, and you will see it when I push back up.

> Let's see if the addition of 2 numbers results in either a total of 5 or 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following determines if the addition of 2 numbers results in either a total of 5 or 4.
```

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(){
    int num1 = 1;
    int num2 = 3;

    switch(num1 + num2){
	case 5:
	    printf("The addition of %d and %d results in 5\n", num1, num2);
	    break;
	case 4:
	    printf("The addition of %d and %d results in 4\n", num1, num2);
	    break;
	default:

> 	    printf("The addition of %d and %d does not result in either 3 or 4\n", num1, num2);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	    printf("The addition of %d and %d does not result in either 4 or 5\n", num1, num2);
```

> 	    printf("The addition of %d and %d results in 4\n", num1, num2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	    printf("The addition of %d and %d results in 4\n", num1, num2);
	    break;
```

    }

>     /**************************************

Reviewer: Like the above, put the output in a separate block, not in a comment.

    Should output:

    The addition of 1 and 3 results in 4
    **************************************/
  
}
```

> Just as aforementioned, you can use a switch-case statement to evaluate the value of not just a variable, but also an expression, as long as the expression results in one value that is either a number or something containing a numerical value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just as aforementioned, a switch-case statement can be used to evaluate the value of not just a variable, but also an expression, as long as the expression results in one value that is either a number or something containing a numerical value.
```
